The first big design decision for our project was, what language will we be using? We had already used PHP in class, so we decided for our web design that we should try to learn about Python, which was a rewarding experience.
We decided to have a required login partially to discourage trolling. If some troll posts some fantastic stuff about their club 11 times, We will be able to see that and remove the duplicate entries from the table.
Next we had to determine the layout of our website. We decided that we wanted a website that was navigated mostly via a header bar. The header bar is very stylish, as you will see, and it contains links to almost all important pages in our website. Another design question was, what do we want the home page to be? We eventually decided that the best call for the home page was the search bar, as this would ideally be the main functionality.
To get to the real in depth under the hood aspects of it, we used Google App Engine and Google App Engine Data Store. The way we utilized this was that we prompted a user to input data into the club evaluation page, and the data would then be stored in the Google App Engine Datastore in much the same way that SQL tables house data. We decided we wanted to branch out and see what it was like to use something that we hadn't already used in class.
We then used a search box which takes an input and then checks to see if the string in the search box matches the name of any of the clubs entered in the club evaluation. This was a great design challenge for us, because it was incredibly difficult to actually get the search box to take an input and compare it using the datastore we had never used before this project.
We also wanted people to be able to see which clubs were being entered in most recently, to allow them to see pertinent trends.
Of course, we also made the design decision of not using bootstrap, which was painstaking but rewarding. All of the html and CSS was from us or specific resources we found online, not a bootstrapped website.
